# Developing-Web-based-Geographic-Information-Systems-Application

# Introduction
The process of methodically gathering, documenting, and computing population data about the individuals within a certain population is known as a census. This phrase is primarily used in relation to national housing and population surveys; other popular surveys include those related to commerce, supply, agriculture, traditional culture, and transportation.The Indian Census has been a valuable source of data for scholars and researchers in demography, economics, anthropology, sociology, statistics and many other disciplines. The decadal census, which has evolved into a tool for comprehending and researching India, does, in fact, highlight the great diversity of the country's population. The Office of the Registrar General and Census Commissioner of India, Ministry of Home Affairs, Government of India, is in charge of carrying out the decadal census.

# Data Collection:
We have collected two types of data i.e. CSV and Shape file. CSV Data has been collected from https://censusindia.gov.in/census.website/data/census-tables. This is 
the official website of the Census India managed by the “Office of the Registrar General & Census Commissioner, India” under the “Ministry of Home Affairs, Government of India”. Census data is collected every 10 years in India and the first census was collected in the year 1881 and the latest data we have is of the year 2011. Due to COVID-19 restrictions in 2021, the recording of population data was forbidden because it required surveyors to visit every household. Still, it would only promote the spread of the disease.The website gives us the choice to select from the years 1991, 2001 and 2011. We have selected 2011 as our period of interest. The attributes we have chosen to study and visualize are TOTAL POPPULATION, HOUSEHOLDS, RELIGION and SEX.Shape file has been downloaded for Gujarat state with district boundaries from the year 2011 because some of the districts which are currently present did not exist in 2011. It consisted of district boundaries, ID and the name of the district.

# Outcomes:
This course has provided us with a comprehensive understanding of WebGIS, covering its concepts, applications, and use cases. After learning how to develop and implement web-based geographic information systems, we now have a better understanding of the practical uses of WebGIS. The handson project was especially helpful since it showed us how to create a simple web application from scratch. Our theoretical knowledge was strengthened by this experience, which also improved our technical proficiency. With every aspect considered, the training has been quite helpful in providing us with the skills and information we need to use WebGIS efficiently in a variety of situations.
